# Interact, Instruct to Improve: A LLM-Driven Parallel Actor-Reasoner Framework for Enhancing Autonomous Vehicle Interactions
[Shiyu Fang](https://fangshiyuu.github.io/)

[[Project web](https://fangshiyuu.github.io/Actor-Reasoner/)]

## Getting started 🚀

#### 1. Install Ollama
Before you start, make sure to have `ollama` installed and a working environment. If you don’t have `ollama` installed, check here [Ollama](https://ollama.com/).
After installing Ollama, run the following command to install llama3:
```shell
ollama run llama3
```
You can choose any other LLM model provided by Ollama—just replace "llama3" with the model you want to use and change llm_agent.py line10 accordingly. Check [here](https://ollama.com/search) for more details. (better with python3.10)

#### 2. Install the dependent package
```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### 3. Start training and testing
```shell
python train.py
python test.py
python test_with_listener.py
```
First, run `train.py` to generate an interaction experience database (you may need to activate line24&25 in memory.py if you do not have a relative embedding model). After that, you can use `test.py` or `test_with_listener.py` for testing. The simulation will run at a frequency of 10Hz. In `test_with_listener.py`, if your device has a microphone, you can act as an HDV and provide human instructions to the CAV. Have fun 😊

## Overview 🔍
### Repo description 📄
In this repository, you can expect to find the following features:
Included:
* Code for Actor-Reasoner (including roundabout, merge, intersection)
* Video and Data of our experiment

Not included:
* Code for Comparison Algorithm

### Files description 📂

**Main Functions:**  
- **`train.py`**: Runs only the Reasoner to train the Actor’s interaction experience database. This must be executed first when running the project for the first time.  
- **`test.py`**: Uses both the Reasoner and Actor. Since most users don’t have access to real vehicles or driving simulators, this function simulates actual operations in a virtual environment with an update frequency of 10Hz.  
- **`test_with_listener.py`**: An upgraded version of `test.py`. If your device has a microphone, this function allows you to provide human instructions via voice input to observe the CAV’s behavior.

**Vehicle Behavior Generation:**  
- **`llm_agent.py`**: Takes scene and conflict information as input and generates semantic actions.
- **`idm_controller.py`**: Converts semantic-level actions generated by the LLM into acceleration.  
- **`bayesian_game_agent.py`**: Decision model for heterogeneous HDVs.  
- **`vehicle.py`**: Defines the vehicle class.  

**Environment & Tools:**  
- **`params.py`**: Contains hyperparameter settings for vehicles and the environment.  
- **`tools.py`**: Includes utility functions such as conflict detection and risk assessment.  
- **`prompt_llm.py`**: Handles prompt design for LLM interactions.  
- **`listener.py`**: Listens to real-time microphone input.  
- **`memory.py`**: Provides tools for managing the interaction experience database.

### If you have any questions, feel free to contact Shiyu (fangshiyu@tongji.edu.cn) 📧.

#### Citation

Our paper has been pre-printed! If you find our work helpful, please consider citing us using the following reference 😊:

```bibtex
@misc{fang2025interactinstructimprovellmdriven,
      title={Interact, Instruct to Improve: A LLM-Driven Parallel Actor-Reasoner Framework for Enhancing Autonomous Vehicle Interactions}, 
      author={Shiyu Fang and Jiaqi Liu and Chengkai Xu and Chen Lv and Peng Hang and Jian Sun},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2503.00502},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.RO},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00502}, 
}

